FFBDs, as compared to
some other diagrams, make it very easy to
represent logical operations. And this is really
one of the reasons I love to use them all the time. Now, the way that it does
is using logic gates, which are also known
as either summary gates, control triggers, control gates, or
sometimes simply gates. The three most common
gates are IT, which represents
iteration, or basically how to show a loop in
the operational flow. There's also OR, which shows the operational flow could take one of many possible paths. And there's also AND, that shows that
the operation flows can occur in parallel. Logic code gates typically come as a set of beginning
and ending pairs, much like a set
of curly brackets. In the same way you
might actually section off a piece of code in
software development. So, to show a loop
using an IT gate, one IT gate circle is used just before the functional block
that starts the loop and when IT gate is placed just after the last functional
block of that loop. An arrow is then drawn from
the end to the beginning of the IT gate combination
and that arrow is typically labeled
with the end condition for that loop. The pair of OR gates
are simply drawn, with just putting one before where the operational
flow splits and one where the operational
flow merges back. The arrows coming out
of the first OR gate are typically labeled
with the condition why one path would be followed. If all but one of
the OR gate arrows are labeled, the unlabeled arrow is
considered the default path. The AND gate pair
works very similarly, with one indicating
where the parallelization begins and the other
indicating where it ends. The AND gate arrows are
not often labeled, though. The one case where
we will see them labeled is perhaps for
resource allocation, such as 50 percent of the power
is going to this part, 30 percent is going
into this part, and the last unlabeled arrow Now, you may see the unlabeled
arrow be used quite often, but at the same time,
professionally, it is considered better
to label all of the arrows if you're
going to label any when using AND gates. Logical flows can
also be nested within each other as many times as needed, as is
shown in the example. Now, gates should always be the same size
throughout the FFBD. The text inside the gates circle
should be all caps, bold, and commonly within one font size of
the functional block text. But, always use the same
font size for all your gates. With that, we've
now actually covered all the bare bone
basics of the FFBD. There are, however,
still a number of other components and techniques that we will
go over later to effectively capture the more complex aspects
of your system, and to do so in a way that's
very easy to interpret.